Did this and everybody else is wearing suits and ties.
And I'm.
Like, did they give you grief for dressing like that?
But not to my face, but maybe later it's.
Oregon hillbilly.
And, uh, so yeah. I don't know. I don't know why I'm on there. I don't who.
Contacted you? Um.
Sec or the interior department.
So like you're in the middle of a run running up Mount Pisgah. Yeah.
Well, no, no. I got to call Washington DC. I swear to God. And I'm like,
oh my God.
This.
Can't be good. Cause it was after. Okay.
So Trump put out the tweet and he said something like,
he doesn't see how hunting for elephants is conservation
or, or helps wildlife. It's a, it's a horror show. Doesn't, you know,
elephants or any other animals, something like that. And I was like,
what in the hell is that? What are we talking about?
No elephants talk about elephants. That's fine. Whatever. But he said,
or any other animal. So I took that tweet.
I posted it and addressed it.
And I don't know if he saw it. I don't really know.
But soon after that I got a call for this thing. And so,
cause I was, you know,
I know just from Huntington in Africa and how it works and um,
the hunting is necessary over there. If the animals are going to survive, if.
Complicated story, complicated situation, but people, uh,
people don't want to hear that now.
So here's an example of in Tanzania, there was a,
the largest hunting concession. And I'm trying to think how big it was.
I can't put the number on how big it was,
but they'd been in business for 40 years. So a hunting concession is,
is they have, you know,
hunters from usually America go over there.
They pay for the,
for the access to the land and they pay for the right to hunt these animals.
So this place had been in business for 40 years. Um,
they went out of business because of this import ban Obama put an import ban
on, uh, the ivory of elephants coming back as trophies.
But also like.
Yeah, the lion thing was right after Cecil,
the lion and it was done as a political measure.
Right? So he put a ban on,
you can go over there and hunt them still because you know, we're from America.
We can't say what's legal in Africa, but he can say what he did was say,
well, you can hunt them, whatever. Cause they can't control that,
but you can't bring them home.
So nobody's going to go and spend 75,000 kill an elephant or 50,000 to kill a
lion if they can't bring it home. Right. So that basically shut down hunting.
And um, um,
this outfit in Tanzania that had business business for 40 years,
they closed, they went out of business about,
I think it was about two months ago now.
And what happens is when they don't have a concession,
they can't pay for that land.
It is given back the people and for us here, there'll be like, oh,
that's great. You gave the land back to the people. No,
it's not good to give the land back to the people there because people can't do
anything. They don't have any money. They don't just like,
so what happens is a poachers. As soon as the hunting concession moves out,
poachers, move in and kill every animal.
The only reason the animals that were being protected in that hunting concession
was because there was hunting in there. These, this outfit would spin.
I think in the last three years they spent over $2 million
on anti-poaching efforts. So $2 million to protect basically their investment,
which is those animals that were in there. Yeah. They'd kill a couple because,
because um, elephants were haunted and they ran the HODs and,
and probably lions, but by and large,
they're protecting the majority of the herd.
Well, give me the, give me those numbers again, because you were,
you were giving me the numbers on elephants legally and illegally killed.
Right? So, so,
and I asked this back at our first international wildlife conservation council
meeting and this, you know,
Peter was there and all these animal rights activists, um,
I don't want to say psychos, that could be disrespectful, but anyway,
these extremists were there.
And so it was kind of heated in some point some cases.
But I did ask this question,
how many elephants are killed legally in Africa each year?
And the number is about 400, 400 to kill legally.
The entire continent of Africa.
So big that you can get America, the United States of America.
You can also get all the European countries. You could fit a lot of in Africa.
Yeah. Yeah. And so there's some,
there's some areas where you're not going to hunt elephants because there's not,
there's not enough. Or, um, they don't live there,
but there's some areas where there's too many elephants. It's just, yeah.
Yeah. That's, what's confusing to people.
People hear elephants are going extinct. Well, yeah, they are in some places.
Yeah. And then another places. But the problem is with local farmers,
they have these plots of land and the elephants come in and eat everything and
destroy their land and they can't do anything about it.
And what are you going to do this? How the, how big is an elephant?
How many thousands of pounds, 10,000 pounds or some. I.
Don't know. They're huge.
A huge, they don't do a thing.
I care about elephants. They are people that they're like,
the elephant is ruining my crop. Yeah. That's what I need to eat.
I'm going to kill the elephant's gonna lay there and rot.
These, these people are starving. I mean, they it's,
there's a food chain going on there.
And humans here where we are we're we're so far above the food chain that
we're like sitting in a platform, looking down, watching it. They're there.
They're ground level. They'll in there. It's it's the whole,
it's a whole analogy of you. Can't have first-world world.
People solving third world problems, you know? And it's just, we, we,
people here have all the answers. It's like, you have everything you want.
You have, you live in excess. You're fat. You have, you throw food away.
What are you talking about? You have no idea what it's like in Africa.
So there 400 elephants are killed.
Legally 30,000 are poached a year 30,000.
And the reason that's happening is because the hunting had to move out.
The hunting closed down or hunting is what pays for the anti-poaching efforts.
But when hunting money, isn't there,
the poachers run rampant 30,000 elephants. That's why they are devastated.
Such a, not hunting.
It's such a hard thing for people to swallow because what I,
this is from the point of view of someone who loves wildlife.
I think this is what people want.
What they want is the humans to leave the animals alone and the animals to
live in this state of bliss,
where they exist perfectly in the balance of nature of predator and prey
all plays out in a natural way without people going over there and shooting
elephants than sticking their tusks on their wall. Yeah. I mean,
we've all seen those pictures of these giant fat, holding a rifle,
standing over a lion and you're like, this just looks wrong.
It looks like American gluttony makes its way over to Africa.
And some guy shoots a line with a rifle.
Now he's standing on its head and he's going to put it on his wall in his fat
house somewhere. That bothers people. I.
Get it too. I mean, I'm not arguing that.
You got to fix Africa first and you, you're not trying.
So this idea that if you just leave all those animals alone and stop hunting
them, everything's going to be fine. No, they're going to be wiped out.
You got to,
people have to look at it pragmatically first and then idealistically,
because pragmatically,
you have to understand that these animals 20 years ago were on the verge of
extinction. So many different antelopes, so many different, uh,
what we would call game animals, animals that people eat.
We're on the verge of extinction until they started instituting these big
hunting concessions.
And having people come in from Europe and America and hunting in Africa,
then the community started to prosper because if someone's paying, you know,
I don't know how much is it to shoot like a Neil guy or something like that. Um,
maybe 1500. So think of how many of those things get shot.
And some of that money goes to the ranch.
Some of that money goes to the professional hunting guys.
Anti-poaching conservation efforts.
And then you have unprecedented numbers.
There's more of those animals today than there have been in decades.
And it's all because people put value.
Yeah. It's all about the animals have to have value and people say, no, well,
the animal has value being alive. It's like, okay.
It does to you, it does to you. If you don't live over there,
if you're not pouring your children, aren't starving to death.
A picture of an, of a line is amazing. Okay. And that animal is beautiful.
There's value in it being alive,
but he got to understand those people need to eat. They need to work.
So if they're not, we're working for the hunting concession.
If the hunting concession goes out of business,
like the largest one in Tanzania did after 40 years, what are they going to do?
They can't go get a job at the mill. You know what I mean? There's no,
there's nothing. There's not industry over there. So what happens is,
as they w some of those people, and I don't know for a fact, but I would,
I'm going to make an educated guess if they would go from working as
anti-poaching officers or, or,
or helping keep the animals alive is as part of the anti-poaching program,
straight to poaching.
Yeah. Well, that that's happened back and forth both ways, right?
Former poachers became anti-poaching officers when the opportunity to practice.
And they were great ones because they knew how, how it worked.
And they knew where the weaknesses were and that saved animals.
But it's just like, it's, it's sad because that, you know,
that last two months,
without that hunting concession there without the anti-poaching, um,
program in place, I guarantee it's been a slaughter.
The animals that were being protected are now just being slaughtered by police.
And again, the difference between looking at things,
pragmatically and looking at things, idealistically, idealistically,
we would like all those people in Africa to have plenty of food and plenty of
opportunity for employment and plenty of things to do with their life.
But they don't, you know, and the,
the situation that had emerged with these hunting concessions is
superior to the situation that's in place now.
And it's also superior for the animals themselves,
including the lions in Zimbabwe, they had to kill, look this up, Jamie,
see if you could, because they had to call,
I think it was something along the lines of 200 lions recently,
because they had decimated the undulate population because they weren't kept in
check. Right? Because the Angela, the way these,
the balance of nature works out is you have to have a balance between predator
and prey. The only way to keep the balance of predator as humans. That's it?
The only thing that exists unless they keep it. Yeah. Symbolic way.
Wild drive reserve will call 200 lines to control a population.
Explosion claiming hunters have been scared off by the outcry over Cecil.
The lion.
The whole thing is so weird because what people just jump on it.
You know that you watched the lion king. Oh, Simba. No, don't kill Simba. And,
oh, see, so he's got a name and all this craziness,
it got to such a weird point where there was this discussion about
Cecil's brother that Cecil's brother got killed Jericho. And they're like,
oh my God, they killed Jericho.
And then people were relieved because they found it.
It was a different line and it wasn't Cecil's brother Jericho. So this is like,
they're watching a reality show.
It's like keeping up with the Kardashians in Africa. Like when you give a,
what the name of the Al the African lion is,
you're crazy. It's not Jericho. Oh, it's it's, it's Michael, the lion.
So it's okay. That's crazy. He's still a lion,
but this shows you this first world view of,
of this wildlife situation,
that is not ideal by any stretch of the imagination. Right?
I think part of it, like with that, the whole Cecil Lyon thing,
it gave people a purpose. It's like, oh, I have something to stand for.
I have a now.
And that's where I know people are struggling out there finding what's my
purpose. What am I doing? You know, and they're spinning their wheels.
They don't, I don't know what they do,
but that gave them something to fight for. And it wasn't right.
It didn't help anything. It hurt.
Those 200 lions could have been $50,000 each to a hunter,
$10 million went to Zimbabwe,
stayed there, or, or at least employed people. Um, but no, they,
they were killed in. There was no game.
It still sucks all across the board. It sucks. The whole situation sucks.
These weird high fence operations, where they let lions loose,
and then they let them out of the cage.
And then people show up that day and the lines on, know what the go on.
And they shoot this line and then stand up. That sucks too. Yeah.
It's like that. The whole thing is weird. It's it's not look wildlife in Africa.
And the high fence wildlife is not ideal by any stretch of the imagination and
these animals that were going extinct.
And now aren't because people were hunting them. It's strange.
That's a strange balance like that.
The only reason they exist is so people can come over there and shoot them.
Like, I don't, I don't want that. I mean, I would like them to just exist.
Well, the thing. Yeah.
But people aren't going to contribute that money to pay for the anti-poaching
just to go take a picture. It's like, if you just.
Can happen, if you go to the Missouri breaks or something like that,
and you go hunting mule deer, like those, that's what I like.
I like animals that exist because they they're, they're they're,
this is their spot. This is where they are. Like,
if you go to the Missouri breaks and you go up into those,
those Hills and look for, for mule deer,
those have been there for thousands of years. I mean,
they have found skulls of deer of white tail deer in
Florida that are 2 million years old.
They're the exact same animal 2 million years ago. So for millions of years,
longer than there have been human beings,
those things have been in that form,
running around north America and wherever the they can. That's what I like.
I like that too.
But don't forget that hunting has played a part in keeping those numbers
healthy, the deer and the there's more deer.
There's no big game animal in north,
the big game animals and north American now than there were a hundred years ago.
And that's through hunting and conservation.
That is true. But it's also because 150 years ago, people went ham,
wiped out. Most of them,
it was real bad when they were doing market hunting before refrigeration.
Exactly.
But, but we've learned from that, we learned, okay, this is how,
this is how we need to do it. This is how hunting fits in this equation.
And that's where, you know,
we talked about the inner national wildlife conservation council.
That's given me a way in to talk about a bunch of other things too.
So one of those, and we talk about animals in north America is, uh, Ryan Zinky,
who's the secretary of interior. He created this new, I guess it's a bill.
I'm not like this political expert. I'm a bow hunter, right.
I wear a flannel shirt and baseball hat, but he did create this,
uh, um, I'm going to call it a bill, but that protects the,
the winter that we call them wildlife corridor.
So it's where the animals can go from the summer summer range to the winter
range, where there's not going to be development there.
So he created that because that's how those animals like in Montana,
make it through the winter. If, if they're up in the summer, um,
they make it through, um, getting into fall.
And then all of a sudden winter hits,
they have to have a way down into the low country to where they can,
their winter migration to where they can survive the snow and where they can
make down. And there's good feed down there. If there's gas,
rigs are middle mineral extraction efforts going on that impede
that then they might get hung up up there and get stuck in the snow and die.
So he realizes that he realized the need for that. And he created this,
this new program.
That's going to make sure that there's no development in there.
It keeps those corridors open. And that's,
that's why our numbers do so well is because there's people like that with the
vision on keeping our animals healthy.